Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
The Lord abhors dishonest scales, but an accurate weight is his delight. 
When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with humility comes wisdom. 
The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the unfaithful destroys them. 
Wealth does not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from mortal danger. 
The righteousness of the blameless will make straight their way, but the wicked person will fall by his own wickedness. 
The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the faithless will be captured by their own desires. 
When a wicked person dies, his expectation perishes, and the hope of his strength perishes. 
The righteous person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked turns up in his stead. 
With his speech the godless person destroys his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous will be delivered. 
When the righteous do well, the city rejoices; when the wicked perish, there is joy. 
A city is exalted by the blessing provided from the upright, but it is destroyed by the counsel of the wicked. 
The one who denounces his neighbor lacks wisdom, but the one who has discernment keeps silent. 
The one who goes about slandering others reveals secrets, but the one who is trustworthy conceals a matter. 
When there is no guidance a nation falls, but there is success in the abundance of counselors. 
The one who puts up security for a stranger will surely have trouble, but whoever avoids shaking hands will be secure. 
A generous woman gains honor, and ruthless men seize wealth. 
A kind person benefits himself, but a cruel person brings himself trouble. 
The wicked person earns deceitful wages, but the one who sows righteousness reaps a genuine reward. 
True righteousness leads to life, but the one who pursues evil pursues it to his own death. 
The Lord abhors those who are perverse in heart, but those who are blameless in their ways are his delight. 
Be assured that the evil person will certainly be punished, but the descendants of the righteous will not suffer unjust judgment. 
Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout is a beautiful woman who rejects discretion. 
What the righteous desire leads only to good, but what the wicked hope for leads to wrath. 
One person is generous and yet grows more wealthy, but another withholds more than he should and comes to poverty. 
A generous person will be enriched, and the one who provides water for others will himself be satisfied. 
People will curse the one who withholds grain, but they will praise the one who sells it. 
The one who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but the one who searches for evil – it will come to him. 
The one who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf. 
The one who troubles his family will inherit nothing, and the fool will be a servant to the wise person. 
The fruit of the righteous is like a tree producing life, and the one who wins souls is wise. 
If the righteous are recompensed on earth, how much more the wicked sinner! 
